---
layout: post
title: 5 Actions To Make You Happier
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). April 4th Montreal

p(gist). Happiness is not universally quantifiable but money is.  Our brains races towards quantifiable goals at the expense of happiness.

h2. 1. Reduce your commute time

p. Happiness is not measurable in the same way that salary is.  There are no metrics for what makes us happy so we tend to race towards what is quantifiable - high salary.  If we spend just a little more quality time away with family and friends our lives are richer and more fulfilling.  Sometimes taking a lower paying job makes sense if it means you spend more time doing what you love.  If the money you make does not help you do what you love you're a sucker.

p. Commuting is a sad side effect of many jobs and sadly the higher the salary the more commute time we're willing to do each day.  Finding ways to shave off commute time has a proven benefit as measure by this <a href="http://www.cces.ethz.ch/agsam2009/panels/AGSAM2009_panel_mobility_Stutzer.pdf">research (PDF)</a>.

h2. 2. Remove Small Frustrations

p. I start every day by putting a kettle on to make some tea.  The kettle I used to have wouldn't turn on properly. I had to jiggle the button and it sometimes turned off on me.  I *wrote down* that it frustrated me.  The next time I was at the store for something unrelated I spend 40$ on a beautiful aluminum kettle that starts my day better than ever before.  Whenever I look at this new kettle I smile and think about how I used to be frustrated but now it's all pleasure.

What frustrates you repeatedly?

h2. 3. Play

p. A <a href="http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2009/06/what-makes-us-happy/7439/">Harvard University study started in 1937</a> and spanned 72 years determined that sports (or play of some kind) can relieve daily frustrations and make you happier overall.

p. So maybe having a set of darts at home is a good idea.

h2. 4. Have Regular Meetups With People

p. Would doubling your income make you happier?  Well it turns out that <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/30/opinion/30brooks.html">regularly seeing people</a> provide the same benefit as doubling your salary.

h2. 5. Have a Drink With Co-Workers

p. People who occasionally have a single drink after work with colleagues make <a href="http://www.zevgroup.com/socialdrinking.html">more money</a> on average than those who do not drink at all.  It turns out that socializing is a happiness boost too so you're winning on all aspects here.  If you're smart you'll take the extra money and spend it on a well deserved vacation but that's for another list.

--
